# Solopreneur lifestyle

Starting a business in 2023 is not hard.

It must have been hard before the access of Internet.

It could have been very difficult without the access to customers and
the hard sell one had to do for each new account.

This is not the case today when Internet has opened up vast
opportunities for creators , programmers, authors and the like.

You can come up with any idea and find buyers.

Internet is a very large underserved marketplace with more and more
people getting into it everyday.

Gone are the days of mass media advertising and interruption based
promotion schemes in which the message was lost on the public. No ad
creator knows the effectiveness of an ad campaign.

But today with targeted ads and data on user behavior , tracking tools
and other analytics you can do paid advertising with a great degree of
success.

But content marketing and organic reach are what we are after. Paid ads
do not give you long term value.

## What you should do?

Find your passion in life. What do you enjoy doing?
This is something that requires deep thinking. This needs a lot of focus
and attention to yourself.

Usually we are used to being focused to the external world. We must do a
lot of soul searching and find out what we really want in life.

Once we get this answer then the rest is easy. By that I mean easier.
You can drill down deep into your niche and find a problem that
interests you.

It should provide a lot of value to others. Otherwise you will not make
money.

## Why Bootstrapping? 

In 2023 the access to market is a huge opportunity. You can do all sorts
of testing of audience with a free Twitter account.

Not a single dollar spent for market research and validating your idea.

You get instant feedback on your startup idea and if you have a decent
follower count you can get a lot more tips on how you can evolve the
idea to fit the market demand.

Of course no customer will tell you what they really want, so you have
to apply some judgement. Ultimately you are the master of your soul. Not
your customers.

And over time, you can toy with multiple tweaks to figure out what works
and what doesn't.

But at least you have an opportunity to test the waters before you
launch.

It is always important to validate your audience before you work on the
product.

Get this wrong and you regret.

## Go from a concept to something real

In the world of tech or creator economy, there are no physical products.
We are only talking digital products. So it is quite easy to come up
with a trial download or sample chapters of your book in case you plan
to launch a book.

Always build distribution first. And keep marketing and getting
feedback. This never stops. This was the biggest mistake I made.

Also master the art of copywriting or writing content that sells. 

All along building your presence all over social media, gaining likes,
retweets, comments and replies and also creating artificial demand for
the product when it is really ready.

This accomplishes several things for us.

Not only does it validate your idea which is never going to be 100%
accurate, it also helps you zero down on how long the frenzy exists.

Lots of prospects drop off over time and you have to make a judgement
call.

Or the reverse may occur.

The people who evinced interest upfront may not buy but you may get a
lot of fresh buyers.

2023 is the year of the personal brand. People like to buy from people
they like, respect and trust.

So all the time with your tweets and threads and blog articles you are
building your image.

Be conscious of this fact but also have some fun. Humor goes a long way
towards bringing out your personality. It takes wits and intelligence to
be humorous and people appreciate that a lot on social media.

Having a massive twitter following will certainly be a big asset but
that takes time as the surface area of follower growth increases
massively beyond a few thousand fans.

Getting that far is a lot of effort, but social proof is always hard to
get.

## Audience building

To build a big community of followers is no mean task.

Remember. People buy from you after they have seen you 7 times on
average .

This is not what I say. This is what market research tells us.

And you need not be present all over the Internet. A platform like
Twitter is quite enough. Focus is key.

I found Twitter most beneficial for business as people are always talking
about money, selling, business development.

Other platforms never interested me that much. Twitter also has the
highest number of high networth individuals who can give you vast sums
of money.

On top of all that Twitter is full of intellectuals and short form
content be it videos or text are the rage in 2023.

So you should be leveraging it.

## Always niche down

As the saying goes __the riches are in the niches__.

Seth Godin, the biggest marketing Guru alive always says, find your
tribe. Market to the smallest subset of your future customer base, be
unique and then expand outwards.

He keeps telling this citing numerous examples. 

But if you think of it, this is the most important aspect of marketing
today.

Gone are the days of mass media advertising and becoming everything for
everybody.

Internet enables economies of scale and massive reach at negligible
costs. At the click of a button you can immediately reach out to
billions worldwide.

This means that there will always be people willing to buy from you
however narrow your focus is.

The key is to get good at what you do, strike the right chords with your
audience and you are halfway through the sale.

Remember all selling happens in the mind first. They must be convinced
you can provide value before they open the purse.

Testimonials and social proof goes a long way too.

But having thought leadership content in your timeline is a form of
social proof too. So is the raw follower count.

Don't be misled by Twitter gurus saying otherwise.

## Finding your market

In Twitter you don't find the market. The market finds you.

Build your personal brand so solid that you no longer have to DM people
asking for availing your offer.

They should DM you asking for you to accept their money.

This is not as difficult as it sounds.

Just like some Yoga poses like Mayurasana looks so difficult but Justin
Trudeu does it so effortlessly.

All it takes is foresight and correct understanding of how the Internet
based attention game works in 2023.

## How large is your market?

Is it so hard to find the real reach of the product and true size of the
market?

It is not.

As I said before, Twitter tells you right away if you have a sizable
follower count.

If you know how to ask you always get answers.

Of course this is a problem for beginners.

The size of the market is not a consideration for us since all valuable
ideas have takers and buyers.

We should never be concerned with the questions like market size which
was a big metric before the Internet market was a reality.

Moreover we are constantly validating our ideas as we build.

## Identifying what the market needs

In order to know what works and what does not you should focus on ONE
single pain point.

Don't get distracted by too many things.

Focus is key. That is going to determine your sales copy on your website
and it is going to be the focus of your social media marketing messaging
as well.

Identify the one thing that customers want and say it in a 1000 ways at
expense of repeating yourself.

Over time the message gets across to the marketplace that you have a
solution.

You may adopt the PAS model if you feel like. Problem, Agitate, Solve.

## Working on the Right problem

Getting the problem dialed in is the most difficult part. You must solve
it well and in a cost effective fashion.

We shall talk about pricing later, but the point is that the main pain
point, the thing that keeps your prospects awake at night must be solved
in a perfect fashion.

It does not matter what your soloepreneur journey is going to be.

Are you a tech problem solver, are you writing a book or creating
something else,a digital course or some Twitter business.

It is all around how the offer addresses the problem.

Get the problem right and you are halfway there.

## Talking to the Right People 

Just in figuring out who to talk to in validating the pain can be quite
hard. With a lot of followers this is easy. People volunteer with
information if you ask a simple tweet question.

Other options are paid surveys or twitter polls.

You can use typeform or your favorite web based survey tool.

You can also look at Google trends if it makes sense to see traffic
volume.

## A Solution ?

Now you must come up with the idea of solving the problem. But remember
this is only an idea. It needs to be validated.

It is something simple.

That means 1000s like you are capable of addressing it.

A product is usually much bigger than a simple solution.

If you are doing a B2B SaaS product then of course it is lot more
challenging.

B2C products that sell under 100$ are easier to get right and get some
sales.

B2B selling typically involves multiple rounds of decision making by
having to convince several stakeholders , so creating a product out of a
solution could be really soul crushing.

But B2B customers typically pay well, so that effort pays off.

Remember, B2B businesses are also harder to build.

## Talking to Your Customers

Creating a stir in the marketplace with some buzz is something that
businesses did even 100 years ago.

With Internet marketplace with gratis content promotions nobody will
stop you from talking about the future any number of times.

Having a cadence is key.

It can ensure that you do not bore your followers and you do not forget
to remind a certain week.

Also getting some live feedback is valuable while you are about it.

Doing this happens on its own.

## Ask the appropriate questions to get clarity

In addition to mapping out the marketplace you also need clarity on
which path to take.

Certain software implementations of features could take months together.
So validating the value it brings to the users is key.

## Getting into the weeds

After you have done all the ground work this is the time to get cranking
and create your dream product.

Lot of people get this sequence wrong. Even I got this wrong and paid a
big price for it.

You must go deep into spending valuable time on your implementation only
after you have ensured everything else.

## When is it done?

At least in software there is never a time when something is truly
finished. This is true in case of digital products also.

Any ebook or course constantly evolves and is a live organism.

So always launch when the key features are done.

You can tweak and improve and fix bugs as you go along.

In Internet's business model, iteration is the idea.

Exactly like how it is done in the software world.

It is trivial to launch, so why delay?

## What is an MVP?

A minimum viable product is a trial that you give to customers to touch
and feel what you are building.

It could be buggy and incomplete but still valuable enough for customers
give you feedback.

They should get a sense of trust after seeing your work.

This is not so easy in non software scenarios but an MVP is a must in
software businesses.

## Who is left standing?

Just with life the last man standing wins. So just because things went
well till now does not imply that the frenzy shall last forever.

That is something only time can tell. You are doing everything to
safeguard against the future uncertainty but nobody is immune from it.

Big tech giants are laying off 1000s of employees now, so what guarantee
do you have?

People are fired by automated emails after putting in 16 years of work
at Google. So you must be more open to your business not doing well
after a given time period.

But fail or not you get to keep the money and the experience stays with
you which is even more valuable.

Most startups like Uber was started after chapter 11 filings, many
businesses in ycombinator are started and do well only third time.

So do not fret about things not going your way.

That is only par for the course and must be worn on your sleeve boldly.

There is no such thing as failure for a brave heart.

## Not invented here syndrome

Whilst developing a software component or even website, people tend to
fall into this weird idea of doing everything from scratch.

You may be losing valuable time and market opportunity by the time you
lose in launching.

So when it makes perfect sense you can reinvent the wheel, but at all
other times we must try to capitalize on existing work.

The open source repositories like github has millions of free projects
that are licensed in such a way that you can easily copy paste code.

Internet is a collaborative medium, never forget.

## Choose your risks carefully

Any business is risky. Like most other things in life.

We must embrace to live with it. Daniel Vasallo says claims in his
portfolio of small bets thread that it is much better to embrace the
uncertainty of variable income.

It compares better with fixed income when monthly the variable component
gives you much higher upside.

But any business is risky and you are living on the edge and that is
what makes the journey exciting.

## Serious business now?

Any software development work feels like it is college.

You are learning and constantly trying out new code.

Likewise with other digital products.

But one day it feels like we are talking serious money.

That is when things get from a hobby or side hustle to a meaningful
revenue stream.

This inflection point can be attained at any time.

It is also this lack of predictability that gives it some risk and
thrill at the same time.

## A perpetual motion machine

Once things get underway you should be able to feel that the business is
on autopilot.

You are making money while you are sleeping.

Seth Godin says that a real business in today's terms is one that gets
you money while you are sleeping.

This is true, but still you may have to fulfil orders after you wake up
or provide support.

At least a marketplace like Gumroad can take care of sales and
collecting revenues.

More on Gumroad and similar marketplaces later.

## Systems are life and death for a business

In any business in 2023 even if it is a tiny stream now, it could
snowball into something big.

Provided you create appropriate systems in place.

This includes:

- sales funnels

- email sequence

- newsletters

- welcome or onboarding sequence

And more.

Each business must institute its own systems.

Gumroad does some things for you but many twitter based businesses have
either convertkit or some other email automation and you can refer to
Russel Brunson for sales funnels. A place like clickfunnels could guide
you further.

## Price paradox

I know it sounds silly and counter intuitive but did you know that
higher prices lead to more customers?

Not only that Alex Hormozi always says that higher prices have always
given him several nice things in life.

This is what Cole Gordon of closers.io says as well.

But creating time based offers and creating urgency for buyers is a
pretty amazing technique and works well with giving the nudge to buy.

But I for one am not subscribed to the price game at all.

I would never enjoy a customer who is in the deal for the low price.

Remember Twitter world is full of really great people and we must do
what we can to keep the broke folks away.

So pricing right is key.

Nobody gets it right the first time.

You could also have a tripwire product or a lead magnet for 5 or 15$
and go all the way up.

You can never know until you try.

## Do You Need  biz partners?

What is the point in a solopreneur journey if all the work is done
alone?

It can be very isolating.

The very idea of a business is that it is built with people.

But we are in 2023 with Internet based leverage and flexibility.

Not only are most teams remote you can hire anyone on the cheap, even
VAs or whatever.

So if you feel like you need to delegate some work you can hire some
temporary contractor or someone.

By all means avoid equity. It is not worth it.

## Will you survive?

It is important to think like a cockroach as David Vasallo says.

Try to somehow survive. Somehow get prepayment from customers.

Then you can think of thriving.

This thinking is what is key in a solopreneur lifestyle.

We must get the cash in the bank as quickly as we can.

This means shameless self promotion, personal branding and creating an
offer that is enticing.

## Dealing with lack of motivation and boredom

Mental health is key in any solopreneur enterprise.

And no one is immune to these challenges.

You could go on long walks or go to gym as Dan Koe does.

You could post memes like Dagobert Renouf and shitpost on Twitter to
share your journey.

Twitter I am sure will give you a relief as it has for a log of us.

Or you could go on a boat ride or mountain hike. It is upto you.

But know that everyone is going through the same issues as you.

## Where does the buck stop?

In the case of a solopreneur the buck stops with you.

Justin Welsh says that every solopreneur can make it big like he.

And guess what? He is in the tech niche, but no developer.

So the world is large and can accommodate all kinds of solopreneur
business models, but a certain level of workaholic mindset and some
regularity and discipline goes a long way into making this work.

You need to put in the reps to get good at what you do.

This is not only in your value creation but also in mastering the
business side like distribution and business development.

Most people underestimate how much you can accomplish in the long run
and overestimate what one achieves in a short time.

## Does the creation evolve over time?

Given the relatively long timelines in Internet time for a product to be
successful, lots of changes will happen.

You can quite easily tackle this.

When money is on the line you will do it, no external push or motivation
needed.

## Building right

Remember, the right thing to do is often not clear.

You may spend years on the wrong things like I did and not make a penny.

Likewise if you do the right thing you can get away putting in just 2
hours a day and make good money.

So always be careful what you work on.

Once again I would like to remind you of the role played by randomness
in the portfolio of small bets idea by Daniel Vasallo.

You can never know what works till you go out and try it out.

## First Things First: Feature Prioritization Frameworks

You ought to prioritize the sequence of things you do in creating the
business.

You can worry about systems much later.

Just get the value out the door first.

That way you can save yourself motivation or escape procrastination.

Getting to know what the market wants helps a lot.

But with all the feedback you still need to do a leap of faith.

This is as Steve Jobs says, the market does not know the future, we make
it.

Internet evolves fast, attention spans get shorter and shorter and
nobody waits for you or your creation.

So be willing to adapt and keep running.

## Value first. Not engagement or likes

JK Molina says likes are not cash.

They definitely aren't.

Just because you have a massive follower count does not mean they aren't
bots or that they have the money to buy from you.

Always focus on high ticket items if you can.

You can't start with it, but you should have a plan to get there.

Customers that pay more not only make you feel much better they also
tend to be less demanding.

## Do it for why not how

Simon Sinek created a viral video years ago in which he said the why of
your business matters much more than how you do the thing.

I would say both are important, but the sample set we have are the
successful businesses.

Whereas there are so many tiny businesses that make boostrappers and
solopreneurs happy about which the world does not care about.

The idea of Simon Sinek is pretty powerful. You should get motivated by
meaning but you need $ to put food on the table.

In such situations a cockroach mindset goes a long way.

Don't die even if a curve ball gets thrown at you.

If you fall down, pickup and keep running.

Never stop.

## Why Relationships Matter?

Remember, social media selling is all about keeping relationships
intact.

You ought to treat your business and personal brand with ferocity and
guard it closely.

If people can trust you with their money you should be worthy of that
trust.

So never bite off more than what you can chew.

Deliver on your promise and keep doing what you do well by putting in
the repetitions getting better not only at what you do but also in
optimizing the systems.

Once your business brings in some cash flow you might be able to afford
better systems.

But most things in a solopreneur business tooling are free or utterly
cheap.

## What Makes Customers Stick Around and Why That’s Important

Customers do not continue to buy from you for the reasons you think. To
make them come back to you, the value proposition must be crystal clear.

Both to you and them.

Which means the communication done in the marketing phase even before
you go ahead with the product is communicated correctly and that it sits
within their minds in a durable fashion.

Always prepare for churn. Some followers will leave you and some people
on monthly plans will go.

But you can make up for churn in two ways:

- upsell to existing customers
- raise the prices

You can do both and see what fits better with your business.

## PRICING: SUBSCRIPTIONS, PLANS, AND OTHER FINANCIAL CHALLENGES

It is a big deal to get pricing right.

In come cases a fixed pricing model may work like ebooks.

One time payment, lifetime updates.

Even some software.

In many SaaS businesses, you can do monthly subscription.

Even freemium. It is upto you what you choose.

Always try out various options before arriving at the right approach.

Just because I ask you to do something and because it works for me does
not mean it will work for your business.

## Pricing Is Not Set in Stone: Strategies for Determining Product Value

Nobody knows how on earth to arrive at a price.

Even the Gods don't.

Price is subjective as all money lacks absolute value.

As a creator your valuation is likely very off.

You enjoy it and you find it easy, that is completely orthogonal to how
a buyer sees it.

A very simple thumb rule is to price 4x of what you think of.

Moreover every solopreneur is unique.

His uniqueness and personal brand makes him or her valuable to buyers.

So you really don't have any competition.

At all.

So you can drive up the price as much as you can till you start getting
pushback.

But that said, if you are not sure of value it is best to not raise
prices.

But you can never know. This is an art, not a science.

## Not All customers Are made same( dealing With bad apples)

It is ok to have some people leave.

Usually the first ones availing your offer are not the ideal customers
for you.

You should always have a bunch of qualifying questions in your offer
that help you filter out the poor matches for your offer.

But a certain degree of customer churn is even good for the business.

And you can opt out of certain pricing schemes or offers.

Keep the ones that work and has most appeal in the marketplace.

Remember, everyone is figuring out as they go along.

No real Gurus.

## Offering Yearly Plans From the Start

It always pays to offer plans that get maximum upfront payment with some
discount.

This is not lowering your value, but volume based discounts are a norm
in the industry.

When people pay a lot of money upfront they must see some advantage.

Most importantly it gets you a lot of cashflow which is oxygen for your
business.

So take it with both hands and have variable pricing models.

You should also see if you can cross sell offers or tier some other
value based services on top of the main thing.

Don't worry. You can get more confidence as you start seeing the initial
dollars hit your bank.

##  Pricing Models That Can Break Your Business

Always try to get money upfront.

This is the law.

No exceptions.

If you try to run a business with low inflows you risk several problems.

Most of the stress caused by low income is psychological.

Remember that.

## Knowing what pulls the levers in a business

In any business it is hard to know which activities that you do weekly
or daily are affecting the business in a positive way.

And what don't move the needle.

In order to know for sure you should measure, optimize and improve.

Daniel Vasallo always comes up with his sales graphs which he builds
from his gumroad sales every year and notice inflection points.

Such trends are normal in SEO as well.

It takes time for authority to build in the marketplace.

Till such time keep your head down and create, code, write whatever.

## Make the Product Sell Itself: Referral Systems 

Julian Shapiro has some concept of product pull based marketing.

He cites Paypal,skype, slack,zoom and similar businesses which draw
people into their platform to get more customers.

This leads to a really amazing growth.

But all businesses do not lend to this model.

So the only option left on the table for us is WOMM.

Word of mouth marketing.

Remember, you can talk about your product, but you are only one person.

When everyone is talking about you, the noise is much louder, moreover
it is also more credible.

So try to build referral into the business from day one.

this also needs a bit of iteration as we must be able to tie this into
the offer and possibly offer a commission or discount to incentivize.

Getting gumroad star ratings on what you sell is an example.
 
For instance I tried to give out my best work for free, for example my
vim cookbook to get more ratings and then I put a price tag of 9.99$.

You can do what fits your business best.

## Surviving a Recession as a Bootstrapped Business 

Bootstrapping is a constant grind and a cockroach existence for several
years.

So you must always watch out for market trends beyond your control like
a tech downturn or financial markets crash or a recession of sorts.

To account for such contingencies you can perhaps come up with some
freelancing or some other revenue stream to fit into this danger.

For example Daniel Vasallo sells his wood carpentry skills.

When you have a Twitter audience and a personal brand you can sell
anything.

## MARKETING, promotion AND SALES

### What is marketing?

Marketing is the process of creating want in the market for your offer.

You are always marketing,always selling.

You just don't realize it.

We have talked about it above as well.

In a place like Twitter the marketing never stops.

Write more case study threads and skill or competence proving threads
more often. That gets poor engagement but more sales later.

As JK Molina says likes are not cash.

### What is promotion?

Promotion is creating more want and amplifying the marketing message.

I like the definition of Tim Sales as I love his youtube channel a lot.

His ideas on the entire marketing, promotion and sales idea is pretty
cool.

Promotion is something we can do either using a twitter giveaway which a
lot of people do or figuring in some podcast or something.

For a giveaway to work remember you should give something that is
valuable or else it will fail to attract the right people.

Once again, promotion gets really creative.

You can collaborate with other creators in your niche and do cross
promotion or be on each other's podcasts.

### What is sales?

Well, I thought you knew that, didn't you?

Sales basically means you get on a call with a prospect after the
prospect understands your offer clearly and you perform the role of a
doctor.

You diagnose the problem or want and offer a cure.

The key thing to remember in a sales call is to use it for clearing
objections, allowing the prospect to talk.

Instead if you don't do your homework and not know the awareness level
of the customer and blabber a lot the sales process gets friction.

Your job is to remove all friction in the sales pipeline.

Marketing does the job for you really well. When done well these three
things, marketing, promotion and sales flows very smoothly.

And through all this a personal brand goes a really long way.

Always remember that.

Whenever a prospect gets a question in your niche they should remember
you and your profile picture.

That should be the goal. It takes time but we should keep this as the
ultimate metric of branding success.

## Advantages of a bootstrapper or solo operator

Remember , as a solo operator your cockroach mindset is a big asset.

Large corporations and entities move slowly.

You are agile and there is always a personal connection.

Customers value that. You are also more likely to survive as your
business priorities do not change with shareholder interests.

There are no stake holders save you.

## How to get constant cashflows?

Being stable in your business enterprise is very challenging when there
is massive swings in income month on month.

You should be able to tide over this uncertainty.

The Internet marketplace is big and you can have several businesses at
same time.

So try to get some low maintenance business to keep the kitchen fires
burning.

## Customer Service at Scale: Helping Those Who Helps Themselves

You should try to get support in autopilot.

This applies mostly to software products but even a cohort course might
need support.

You should enable forums and interest groups where your customers
support each other.

Twitter is a great support platform too.

Even  if you are not around someone else could answer their problems.

Remember, Internet is a collaborative medium in which everyone prospers
together and help each other.

That is the reason it is called a social network.

But at same time however social we are, each person earns their own
money.

Nothing social about that though.

## Seeing Through Your Customer’s Eyes

As we have seen before we do not see pricing and value from the
customer's eyes.

And likewise we do not experience pain like they do.

So always be available and give them comfort in your offer post
purchase.

Remember, you are nurturing relationships.

That leads to excellent word of mouth marketing as well as give you
opportunities for upsell in future.

## Customer Retention: Keeping Them Around 

To retain loyal customers all you have to do is be nice and ensure there
is proper fitment in terms of what they want and what you offer.

Also raising prices help a lot too.

Get rid of the snakes that pay less and make endless demands.

In my experience they are the worst customers to have around.

Don't think twice about losing them. Jose Rosado is very clear about
that. So is JK Molina and Max and many others.

You need people to have a positive vibe with you.

## BUILDING A MATURE BUSINESS

A serious business from a tiny attempt is something that takes years to
form just like a personal brand.

People like Justin Welsh and Daniel Vasallo make millions as
solopreneurs.

You can operate solo for ever or get some help in case you cross
200,000$ in ARR.

If I were you I would always be solo.

It is upto you. Each creator is different and life situation changes all
the time too.

What we planned before we started and after couple of years, the reality
is completely different.

And we ought to decide based on the current situation. Nothing can be
predicted.

## BUILDING A BRAND

No matter what you do online a brand is a must.

Personal or otherwise.

You can watch youtube videos by Philip Van Dueson on this topic.

He has some amazing insight into this.

It is not your logo, not colors or font but much larger.

Having a consistent presence across all social platforms and web in
general in terms of your profile picture and fonts helps.

So does showing up on videos either on your personal site or websites is
useful too.

Many Twitter personalities I talk about often in this book are familiar
to me as I watch them talk a lot. Arvid Kahl the author of **Zero to
Sold**
is big on podcasts.

## You Want a Tribe 

Seth Godin always says you should find your tribe.

It is hard to make out where they are and which place of Internet they
reside and hang out.

But you should attract them to you. There is simply no other way to grow
as a business.

They are your assets, much more valuable than money.

And treat them as such.

## Positioning 

For a launch to be effective you need two things:

- positioning
- framing

Positioning is how you plan to differentiate in the marketplace.

Framing is how you agitate the pain point of the customer you solve.

You need to dial in on both to be effective.

## Made to Stick: Shaping an Extensible Product 

In order to stay relevant and be making money your product ought to
evolve with the times.

You should wake up to new threats and do a SWOT analysis.

Google is waking up to chatGPT. Like that as creator you always have to
keep changing your tune to suit the changing reality around us.

## The Power of staying small

You should always operate lean both from biz angle as well as from
product angle.

So focus on the key pain point and keep features small.

Remember, most features don't even get used by your customers anyway.

So avoid this elaborate planning that lots of founders tend to get into.

Once again cockroach thinking helps.

You simply don't have the luxury of failure.

Be a boat, not a ship.

## Staying in Touch with Your Market

In Twitter you post daily and stay in touch and be relevant.

You should never lose touch with your fans, that is the most important
thing.

Always be talking, even if platitude. It is fine.

People must see you in their feeds often to remember you.

Also say one thing in a 1000 ways,most people missed it the first time
anyway.

It also helps you get better at your craft.

## Product roadmap

This may sound a lot like software terminology but every creation needs
a future plan.

You should launch with minimal features and build on top of it by and
by.

Having a clear vision is a great asset for every creator.

## What is this about?

Creating a business is about making new meaning.

It is about making your dreams bloom and alongside also make bank.

Learn to enjoy the process first and foremost.
